<center>
 <h1>A nix package for OpenHAB</h1>
 <strong>No-frills, auto-updated high-quality package of OpenHAB for nix systems</strong>
</center>

Many of the attempts to integrate OpenHAB with nix attempt to also create a
declaratively-configured NixOS module at the same time. While an admirable goal, this approach has
resulted in none of these projects working out of the box. With this flake the aim is to provide
the barebones foundational stone for annybody looking to run OpenHAB either manually, or to enable
integration to their systems in whatever other manner.

## Usage

At the most basic level you can build the package like so:

```console
$ nix build github:nagisa/nixpkg-openhab
```

However, more likely you will want to integrate this into a larger flake of some sort (such as the
one building your system that is going to run OpenHAB):

```nix
inputs = {
    # ...;
    openhab.url = "github:nagisa/nixpkg-openhab";
    openhab.inputs = {
        # In case you alrady depend on `nixpkgs` in your flake, consider having `openhab`
        # “follow” it:
        nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
        # Similarly, for flake-utils:
        flake-utils.follows = "flake-utils";
    };
};
```

From there `openhab.packages` will contain a variety of packages, with `openhab` or its alias
`default` being most interesting of them all. Among other things it also re-exports a copy of the
`jdk` used for OpenHAB in case you need it for any reason.

## Running OpenHAB

Running OpenHAB as-is is not going to work, however. You will need to set-up a directory with some
configuration and user data storage, as well as some environment variables pointing OpenHAB (or
rather Apache Karaf) at this directory.

In this example a basic openhab directory in current user’s home is created, however once you look
at deploying a systemd service, this may get more complicated (though the general pattern will be
similar…)

```console
$ mkdir -p ~/openhab/userdata/etc
$ cp -rv $(nix build github:nagisa/nixpkg-openhab)/userdata/* ~/openhab/userdata
$ cp -rv $(nix build github:nagisa/nixpkg-openhab)/conf ~/openhab/
$ chmod -R +rw ~/openhab
```

Then, you can run OpenHAB with the appropriate environment variables.

```console
env OPENHAB_USERDATA="$HOME"/openhab/userdata/ \
    OPENHAB_CONF="$HOME"/openhab/conf \
    $(nix build github:nagisa/nixpkg-openhab)/start.sh
```

At this point you should see openhab successfully launching and you should be able to access the
web UI in your browser at `localhost:8080`.

## Maintenance

This project is maintained automatically via GitHub Actions. It will periodically check the
upstream [openhab/openhab-distro](https://github.com/openhab/openhab-distro) repository for new
releases and update the flake definition and the hash for the repository of dependencies here to
the most recent proper release. Due to the way maven works (and mvn2nix does not work) the hash of
the repository can change as OpenHAB's dependencies are upgraded, even without any changes to
OpenHAB, so if you do happen to encounter a hash mismatch, it might get resolved on the next run of
the maintenance action.

However, it is inevitable that things may break due to the upstream changes in the future. In that
case, contributions and issues are welcome, of course.
